Any new features or breaking changes will be listed here.

# 3/23/2026

- Nested options under `options.foo.options.bar` should now work correctly with mutators.

- When first typechecking a module, we now immediately store its path as an accessible attribute. This should improve a
  few niche error cases, so the module to blame is always reported.

# 3/22/2026

- `types.option` has been renamed to `types.optional`. The word option already has a meaning in an Adios context, so
  preventing a naming collision is preferable.

- The error message when a type fails to match has been improved. Previously, Adios would print type errors in this
  format:
  ```
  Expected type '${type.name}' but value '${value}' is of type '${typeOf value}'
  ```
  However, the result of `typeOf value` simply prints the primitive Nix type. This had several issues.
  1. `typeOf` doesn't handle derivations properly, and just prints `set`.
  2. It made errors for non-trivial types more confusing. For example, if a struct failed to match, Adios would print
     `but value ${value} is of type 'set'`, but structs _are_ sets. Printing the primitive type isn't very useful in
     most cases.

  The error message format has been changed to:
  ```
  Expected type '${name}' but value '${toPretty v}' failed the type check
  ```
  This clarifies that Adios doesn't really know what type the input data was - it just knows the verification function
  returned false. The primitive type is no longer printed, as it seems to do more harm than good in this context.

- Adios typechecks modules, so `options = []` throws an error. Several of these type definitions have been refactored.
  This shouldn't cause a change in behavior, so please report if you experience any differences.

- Error messages generated by the `attrsOf` type have been improved, to now point to the exact attribute causing the
  error. Previously, a type of `types.attrsOf types.string` being applied to `{ x = 1; y = "demo"; }` would return an
  error message that didn't specify the key causing the error:
  ```
  in attrsOf<string> value: Expected type 'string' but value '1' is of type 'int'
  ```
  Now, it will return:
  ```
  in attrsOf<string> value: in attribute 'x': Expected type 'string' but value '1' is of type 'int'
  ```

# 3/21/2026

- Basic submodule support is now fixed. This originates back to the original commit of adios - and it's so old and
  unused that I didn't understand it until I looked at the old tests. But Adios actually supports "sub-options":
  ```nix
  { types, ... }:
  {
    options.foo = {
      options.bar = {
        type = types.string;
        default = "demo";
      };
    };

    impl = { options }: options.foo.bar;
  }
  ```
  For most cases, I recommend sticking with structs over sub-options. However, a module providing a complex API
  underneath some attribute may benefit from this. Submodule support is something I hope to improve in the future, so
  an option can point to the full API of some input module.

- `types.str`, an alias for `types.string`, has been removed. I don't think this is a necessary alias, and I'd prefer to
  see everyone congregate on the string form.

# 3/19/2026

- The internal path of korora (the Adios type system) has been changed. Uses of `${sources.adios}/types/types.nix`
  should be changed to `${sources.adios}/korora`. This is very unlikely to affect you, unless you're vendoring korora
  specifically from Adios.

- The value of `unknown` for structs now defaults to false. This means that structs will reject any field that they
  don't specify. To achieve the old behavior, the struct can be overridden:
  ```nix
  (types.struct "structName" {
    foo = types.int;
    bar = types.string;
  }).override { unknown = true; }
  ```

# 3/18/2026
- The `name` parameter of Adios modules now does absolutely nothing. Originally, names actually had a semantic meaning.
  This has been removed for a long time, but names still slightly improved the state of error logging. Now, they do
  nothing, and won't be included at all when loading a module.

- `(adios root {}).override` has been removed. I've never seen anyone actually use this, and I'm generally unsure about
  some of the design decisions of the eval stage.

- `adios = (import sources.adios).adios` boilerplate is no longer required. Instead, one can just do `adios = import
  sources.adios`. This comes along with the removal of the `contrib/` modules. The old entrypoint now provides a
  warning.

- An opt-in mutation API has been introduced, which let one module set another module's option via user-defined merge
  semantics

- Modules are now able to call another's `impl` via `inputs.foo {}`

- A module can now call its own `impl` via `options {}`
